README.md, before:

<a name="readme-top"></a>

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
        <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgements">Acknowledgements</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running follow these simple example steps.

### Prerequisites

This is an example of how to list things you need to use the software and how to install them.
* npm
  ```sh
  npm install npm@latest -g
  ```
* node v16.9.x or above
    ```sh
    npm install node@latest
    ```
    To make sure you have the correct version of node type:
    ```sh
    node -v #should be v.16.18.0 or above
    ```

### Installation

1. Clone the repo
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/RotesBlatt/disco-salad.git
    cd disco-salad
    ```
2. Install NPM packages
    ```sh
    npm install
    ```
3. Create a `.env` file with these variables
    ```env
    BOT_TOKEN=YOUR_DISCORD_BOT_PRIVATE_TOKEN
    CLIENT_ID=YOUR_DISCORD_BOT_CLIENT_TOKEN
    ```
4. Run the command deploy file
    ```sh
    npx ts-node .\src\deploy-commands.ts
    ```
5. Start the discord bot
    ```sh
    npx ts-node .\src\index.ts
    ```
<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>


<!-- Usage -->
## Usage

After inviting your local copy of the bot to the server there is nothing else you need to do to start the party! Just get into a voice channel and type your first command!

* /play search: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ

  Soon after entering the command, you'll notice the bot joining your channel and start playing the music. You can also enter a spotify track link or just search for keywords by replacing the link with something like this: "marc rebillet edeka"

* /skip

  Skips the currently playing song and starts playing the next one in the queue. The optional parameter "to" can skip to a specific position in the queue

* /loop

  Repeat the currently playing song until you're bored of hearing that song, then use the command again to stop the looping

* /np

  Shows you the currently playing song with some extra information about the song

* /queue

  Shows you the current song queue as well as the currently playing song 

* /stop

  Stops the bot from playing the music and clears it's entire song queue. If you want the bot to leave as well, then type "/leave" to get the same result be he also leaves your voice channel

There are more features which you can see by typing / in a text-channel and then click on the little icon from the bot and scrolling through the list of commands.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- Roadmap -->
## Roadmap
- [x] Basic functionality
    - [x] Playing songs from a YT-link
    - [x] Song queue for the music 
    - [x] Pausing and resuming the music
    - [x] Skipping the current playing song
    - [x] Stopping the currently playing song and clearing the song queue
- [x] Expanding the basics
    - [x] Search for song by searching for the given title (ytsr)
    - [x] Enqueue songs by YT-link to playlist (ytpl)
    - [x] Current song looping
    - [x] Song queue looping
    - [x] Show the current playing song to the user
    - [x] Show the song queue to the user
    - [x] Remove songs at specific index from the queue
    - [x] Skip to specific song position in queue
- [ ] Create server settings
  - [ ] Listen to only one text-channel for commands
  - [ ] Join only one specific channel
  - [ ] Restrict bot from changing channel when doing (/join)
  - [ ] Only users with certain permissions can use the bot
  - [ ] Should show current playing song whenever it starts playing
  - [ ] How many songs should be retrieved from a playlist when linking a playlist
  - [ ] Play a url before leaving the voicechannel because of inactivity 
- [x] Use embeds for user interaction
- [x] Spotify streaming option (kinda)
- [ ] Use logger for logging information to the console
- [ ] Track stats
    - [ ] Amount of times a song has been played
    - [ ] Most played artist
    - [ ] Who requested the song
- [ ] Ask chatgpt for a song suggestion by giving it a topic/theme
<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- Acknowledgements -->
## Acknowledgements
Thanks to Smn279#4383 for the idea of the skipping to command
<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

Commit message:

Specified usage in README.md to include little tutorial on how to invite the bot to your server

README.md, after:

<a name="readme-top"></a>

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
        <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgements">Acknowledgements</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running follow these simple example steps.

### Prerequisites

This is an example of how to list things you need to use the software and how to install them.
* npm
  ```sh
  npm install npm@latest -g
  ```
* node v16.9.x or above
    ```sh
    npm install node@latest
    ```
    To make sure you have the correct version of node type:
    ```sh
    node -v #should be v.16.18.0 or above
    ```

### Installation

1. Clone the repo
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/RotesBlatt/disco-salad.git
    cd disco-salad
    ```
2. Install NPM packages
    ```sh
    npm install
    ```
3. Create a `.env` file with these variables
    ```env
    BOT_TOKEN=YOUR_DISCORD_BOT_PRIVATE_TOKEN
    CLIENT_ID=YOUR_DISCORD_BOT_CLIENT_TOKEN
    ```
4. Run the command deploy file
    ```sh
    npx ts-node .\src\deploy-commands.ts
    ```
5. Start the discord bot
    ```sh
    npx ts-node .\src\index.ts
    ```
<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>


<!-- Usage -->
## Usage

First, invite the bot to your server by going to the [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications) and selecting your application (bot). Then go to the tab "OAuth2" and select "URL Generator", select the "bot" scope and give it the "Administrator" permissions. Now you'll see a generated URL which you can copy into a new tab and invite the bot to a server where you are an admin".

After inviting the bot to the server, you can start the party! Just get into a voice channel and type your first command into any text channel!

* /play search: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ

  Soon after entering the command, you'll notice the bot joining your channel and start playing the music. You can also enter a spotify track link or just search for keywords by replacing the link with something like this: "marc rebillet edeka"

* /skip

  Skips the currently playing song and starts playing the next one in the queue. The optional parameter "to" can skip to a specific position in the queue

* /loop

  Repeat the currently playing song until you're bored of hearing that song, then use the command again to stop the looping

* /np

  Shows you the currently playing song with some extra information about the song

* /queue

  Shows you the current song queue as well as the currently playing song 

* /stop

  Stops the bot from playing the music and clears it's entire song queue. If you want the bot to leave as well, then type "/leave" to get the same result be he also leaves your voice channel

There are more features which you can see by typing / in a text-channel. Then clicking on the little icon from the bot enables you to scroll through the list of commands which exist on the bot.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- Roadmap -->
## Roadmap
- [x] Basic functionality
    - [x] Playing songs from a YT-link
    - [x] Song queue for the music 
    - [x] Pausing and resuming the music
    - [x] Skipping the current playing song
    - [x] Stopping the currently playing song and clearing the song queue
- [x] Expanding the basics
    - [x] Search for song by searching for the given title (ytsr)
    - [x] Enqueue songs by YT-link to playlist (ytpl)
    - [x] Current song looping
    - [x] Song queue looping
    - [x] Show the current playing song to the user
    - [x] Show the song queue to the user
    - [x] Remove songs at specific index from the queue
    - [x] Skip to specific song position in queue
- [ ] Create server settings
  - [ ] Listen to only one text-channel for commands
  - [ ] Join only one specific channel
  - [ ] Restrict bot from changing channel when doing (/join)
  - [ ] Only users with certain permissions can use the bot
  - [ ] Should show current playing song whenever it starts playing
  - [ ] How many songs should be retrieved from a playlist when linking a playlist
  - [ ] Play a url before leaving the voicechannel because of inactivity 
- [x] Use embeds for user interaction
- [x] Spotify streaming option (kinda)
- [ ] Use logger for logging information to the console
- [ ] Track stats
    - [ ] Amount of times a song has been played
    - [ ] Most played artist
    - [ ] Who requested the song
- [ ] Ask chatgpt for a song suggestion by giving it a topic/theme
<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- Acknowledgements -->
## Acknowledgements
Thanks to Smn279#4383 for the idea of the skipping to command
<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>
